thank you for your interest in loyalists
interval medicine residency program I
know that the interview season can be a
long process and wanted to take a few
extra minutes to remind you about some
of the highlights of Loyalists internal
medicine residency Loyola University
Medical Center is a 535 bed academic
center located in Maywood just outside
the city limits of Chicago our location
provides one of Loyalists most important
assets its patient population Loyola
serves as a primary care center for the
indigent patient population of Maywood
in Bellwood providing our residents with
a rich and meaningful experience in in
patient care and outpatient continuity
clinics as the westernmost academic
medical center in Chicago
Loyola is a major site for tertiary
referrals of patients from Western
Illinois Eastern Iowa and southern
Wisconsin loyalists excellence and heart
lung liver kidney and bone marrow
transplantation provides the opportunity
to learn from these medically complex
patients pre and post transplant care
our affiliation with the Edward Heinz
jr. Memorial VA offers a unique patient
population which provides an
unparalleled experience of diagnosis and
treatment of our veterans loyalist
campus also includes the Cardinal
Bernardin Cancer Center home of the
busiest bone marrow transplant center in
the state of Illinois and our heart and
Vascular Center which houses eight
cardiac catheterization Suites residents
also benefit from the Marcel Andy Haas
School of Nursing building equipped with
an innovative virtual hospital as well
as a state-of-the-art procedural skill
center located in the strict School of
Medicine in addition to the excellent
subspecialty in inpatient care in the
Loyola campus the Loyola primary care
network consists of 29 satellite
facilities including the 100,000 square
foot Burr Ridge outpatient center
whatever most unique and exciting
features of our program is the four plus
one system this separates the
responsibilities of inpatient and
outpatient clinical duties in order to
maximize each without one competing with
the other this is not only enhanced a
continuity of conduit clinic but has
also increased the educational value and
structure of the inpatient service
within our program residents are divided
into five firms that rotate temporarily
together through four week and patient
or consult blocks followed by a one week
ambulatory experience and a golden
weekend for our preliminary year
residents the plus one week is a
personalized week created specifically
around your educational goals for the
categorical residents the plus one week
consists of five half-day continuity
clinics offset by four sub specialty
clinics both are categorical and
preliminary residents take part in our
Friday school Friday school is dedicated
to furthering education and training
this four-hour session includes
interactive small group sessions case
based learning for DV with preparation
and procedure simulations in addition
one hour is the academic research
curriculum or arc arc is a newly
redesigned longitudinal research
curriculum that focuses on teaching
research methods data interpretation and
critical analysis of published
literature the curriculum is focused
around core journal articles which are
presented and discussed and small groups
led by dedicated research faculty for
those with further research interests we
offer up to three months of dedicated
research during residency
in addition to excellence in patient
care and research Loyola has a strong
commitment to service the Jesuit
tradition of education and service
permeates the Loyola culture with the
rich array of medical mission
opportunities available for resident
participation locally the public action
to deliver shelter or Pat's clinic
provides health care to the homeless
population of the greater Chicagoland
area residents can also volunteer at
community health clinic offering free
health care to low-income uninsured
patients while simultaneously teaching
medical students history and physical
examination skills in addition each year
small number residents participate in
international medicine experiences
although residency is busy there's
arguably no better city to enjoy your
time off in Chicago with championship
sports teams dozens of cultural
institutions and museums more than 250
theaters over 7,000 restaurants and 26
miles of lakefront there's always a new
experience waiting for you here at
Loyola we seek residents that thrive as
part of the team demonstrate
intellectual curiosity strive to deliver
patient centered care and show a desire
and commitment to teaching a lifelong
learner as a program we are proud of our
educational opportunities and resources
that we feel will train and equip you to
be a superior and successful physician
so thank you again for your interest in
our program we are excited that you are
considering training at Loyola and wish
you the best of luck in the match
process